---
layout: book
title: Calculus exam
description: "Solution of the exam"
tags: [Exam, Calculus, Pharmacy, Biotechnology]
share: true
image: abaco.jpg****
---

Degrees: Pharmacy and Biotechnology  
Date: Jan 19, 2018

## Exercise 1

1. Find an equation of the tangent plane to the surface $S: e^xy-zy^2+\frac{x^4}{z}=-1$ at the point $P=(0,1,2)$.
2. Find the tangent line to the curve obtained by the intersection of $S$ and the plane $z=2$ at the given point $P$.

<div><button class="solution">Show solution</button></div>
<div id="solution" style="display: none">
1. Tangent plane: $x-3y-z+5=0$.<br/>
2. Tangent line: $(3t,1+t)$ or $y=\frac{x}{3}+1$.
</div>

## Exercise 2

An organism metabolizes (eliminates) alcohol at a rate of three times the amount of alcohol present in the organism.
If the organism does not have alcohol at initial time and it starts to get alcohol at a constant rate of 12 cl per hour; how much alcohol will be in the organism after 5 hours?
What will be the maximum amount of alcohol in the organism?
When will that maximum amount be achieved?

<div><button class="solution">Show solution</button></div>
<div id="solution" style="display: none">
Let $y$ be the alcohol in the organism and $t$ the time.<br/>
Differential equation: $y'=12-3y$.<br/>
Solution: $y(t)=4-4e^{-3t}$.<br/>
$y(5)=3.99$ cl.<br/>
The maximum amount of alcohol will be 4 cl and it will be achieved at $t=\infty$.
</div>

## Exercise 3

Three alleles (alternative versions of a gene) $A$, $B$ and $O$ determine the four blood types $A$ ($AA$ or $AO$), $B$ ($BB$ or $BO$), $O$ ($OO$) and $AB$.
The Hardy-Weinberg Law states that the proportion of individuals in a population who carry two different alleles is

$$
p(x,y,z)=2xy+2xz+2yz
$$

where $x$, $y$ and $z$ are the proportions of $A$, $B$ and $O$ in the population.
Use the fact that $x+y+z=1$ to compute the maximum value of $p$.

<div><button class="solution">Show solution</button></div>
<div id="solution" style="display: none">
There is a local maximum at $(\frac{1}{3},\frac{1}{3})$ and $f(\frac{1}{3},\frac{1}{3})=\frac{2}{3}$.
</div>

## Exercise 4

Three substances interact in a chemical process in quantities $x$, $y$ and $z$. At equilibrium, the three quantities are related by the following equation:

$$ 
\ln z - \frac{x^2y}{z}=-1
$$

Assume $z$ is an implicit function of $x$ and $y$; compute the variation of $z$ when $x=y=z=1$ and $y$ decreases at the same rate as $x$ increases.

<div><button class="solution">Show solution</button></div>
<div id="solution" style="display: none">
Directional derivative of $z$ in $(1,1,1)$ along $\mathbf{v}=(1,-1)$: $z'_\mathbf{v}(1,1,1)=\frac{1}{2\sqrt{2}}$.
</div>
